# Cplusplus-Program

Summarize the project and what problem it was solving:

This project involved building a prototype to interface with a tracking system for a zoo that would allow for maintenance of their animal data.  The problem it is solving is that the zoo was looking at a new RFID chip technology for tracking their animals data, but the technology only allowed for data storage, not data maintenance.  This prototype provides that maintenance capability.
  
What did you do particularly well?

What I did particularly well in this project was isolating and consolidating my main in a Driver class, providing transparency to the user by adding a README to the program startup that steps through the programs features, and thoroughly commenting on the code to provide clarity to the purpose behind each component.
  
Where could you enhance your code? How would these improvements make your code more efficient, secure, and so on?

I could enhance this code by separating the class "TheZoo.cpp" into handler classes such as "MenuHandler.cpp", "FileHandler.cpp", "PrintHandler.cpp", and "JavaHandler.cpp".  This would make for a more logical project navigation and reusability, readability, maintainability, and adaptability. This would isolate the features by contribution or purpose to the program which means you could easily come back to these class files and pluck the purpose needed from one module rather than scouring over one big file. Also, by isolating features into more classes, it is easier to control security of a program by utilizing access specifiers of components within each class.  By having less code across more classes versus all code in one or a few classes, I've notice the IDE becomes much more responsive in project navigation as well as build and runtime which could make for a more efficient development and testing time. Lastly, I think the exception handling could have been more informative and thorough to handle unexpected situations which would potentially provide for a better, perhaps more secure, user experience.
  
Did you find writing any piece of this code challenging, and how did you overcome this? What tools and/or resources are you adding to your support network?

I'd say the most difficult part of writing this code was getting the "AddAnimal" and "RemoveAnimal" functions to work seamlessly with the tabular format. I overcame this with a great deal of console tests. You can code changes until you're blue in the face, but it's the output that really determines what stays and what goes. I found the key is to coordinate the lengths of all data including the number of fill spaces, length of user input, the length of the vector, the number of loop iterations that prints the table: all these components directly effect each other as the data changes. Without this coordination, the table quickly falls apart--one little extra or missing space can throw off the rest of the entire table. The loop printer that used the modulo operator was key to printing each row and also makes for great adaptability: just need to change the modulo conditional (currently "((i + 1) % 6) == 0" if more columns are added or removed (6 being the number of columns).

What skills from this project will be particularly transferable to other projects and/or course work?

The skills from this project that will be particularly transferable to other projects and/or course work will be acquiring the ability to do some basic file handling in C++ such as loading data from a file into a vector, saving data from a vector into a file, as well as adding to my experience creating tables for data that maintain composure with various character lengths in cells. In addition, I've now acquired more experience in documenting my programs with comments to where I can revisit features and not have to ponder the underlying logic.

How did you make this program maintainable, readable, and adaptable?

I made this program maintainable by isolating each feature of the menu to its own function, and further isolating any complexities within those functions to their own functions. For example, instead of providing the code to trim the user data within the "AddAnimal" feature, I created an "InputTrim" function that directly adds the trimmed version of the input to the vector when the vector's push_back function calls the trim itself. Furthermore, I made sure to separate printing the table header from printing the table data because these function serve two very different purposes even though they seemingly work together.  If any titles ever needed to change in the table header or if I wanted to use this same header with a completely different output loop of data, the isolation between these two functions makes the process simple. I made this program readable by providing a consistent format regarding indentations, naming conventions, and comments. In general, the code blocks are indented 3 spaces within their respective definitions. As far as naming conventions, this program uses lower camel case for variables and upper camel case for classes and functions. I made this program adaptable by composing thorough comments that help to sort the logic and reasoning behind components that could help transpose the logic to other programs.  Furthermore, the isolation of these features caters to the adaptability as well because, as mentioned previously, the features can be quickly identified and plucked for reuse.
